CubeFS Project Security Self-Assessment - Security Pals (#1171)
cncf/tag-security: assessments/projects/cubefs/self-assessment.md

# CubeFS Self-assessment

> This Self-assessment document was created by community members as part of the [Security Pals](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/issues/1102) process, and is currently pending changes from the maintainer team. It aims to help provide information regarding CubeFS, determining gaps in their security, and preparing any security documentation for their users. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Self-assessment document was created by community members as part of the [Security Pals](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/issues/1102) process, and is currently pending changes from the maintainer team. 

It aims to help provide information regarding CubeFS, determining gaps in their security, and preparing any security documentation for their users. 

```

# CubeFS Self-assessment

> This Self-assessment document has been created by students at NYU Tandon to help provide information regarding CubeFS, determining gaps in their security, and preparing any security

Reviewer 2: Do we want to change this lead in?  I would think that it should mention the Security Pals effort.

Author: @JustinCappos do you have any suggestions for this?

Reviewer 2: Please use: 

This assessment was created by community members as part of the [Security Pals](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/issues/1102) process, and is currently pending changes from the maintainer team.

Author: Thank you @JustinCappos! The suggested change has been implemented. Please review.

# CubeFS Self-assessment
This Self-assessment document was created by community members as part of the [Security Pals](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/issues/1102) process, and is currently pending changes from the maintainer team. 

It aims to help provide information regarding CubeFS, determining gaps in their security, and preparing any security documentation for their users. 

## Table of contents

* [Metadata](#metadata)
  * [Security links](#security-links)
* [Overview](#overview)
  * [Actors](#actors)
  * [Actions](#actions)
  * [Background](#background)
  * [Goals](#goals)
  * [Non-goals](#non-goals)
* [Self-assessment use](#self-assessment-use)
* [Security functions and features](#security-functions-and-features)
* [Project compliance](#project-compliance)
* [Secure development practices](#secure-development-practices)
* [Security issue resolution](#security-issue-resolution)
* [Appendix](#appendix)

## Metadata

|   |  |

> | -- | -- |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| -- | -- |
| Assessment Stage | Incomplete | 
```

# CubeFS Self-assessment

> This Self-assessment document was created by community members as part of the [Security Pals](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/issues/1102) process, and is currently pending changes from the maintainer team. 
> 
> It aims to help provide information regarding CubeFS, determining gaps in their security, and preparing any security documentation for their users. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This Self-assessment document was created by community members as part of the [Security Pals](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/issues/1102) process and is currently pending changes from the maintainer team. 

The intention of this assessment is to help provide security-related information, such as gap identification and user security considerations, that pertain to the CubeFS project.
```
@JustinCappos

# CubeFS Self-assessment
This Self-assessment document has been created by students at NYU Tandon to help provide information regarding CubeFS, determining gaps in their security, and preparing any security
documentation for their users. 

## Table of contents

* [Metadata](#metadata)
  * [Security links](#security-links)
* [Overview](#overview)
  * [Actors](#actors)
  * [Actions](#actions)
  * [Background](#background)
  * [Goals](#goals)
  * [Non-goals](#non-goals)
* [Self-assessment use](#self-assessment-use)
* [Security functions and features](#security-functions-and-features)
* [Project compliance](#project-compliance)
* [Secure development practices](#secure-development-practices)
* [Security issue resolution](#security-issue-resolution)
* [Appendix](#appendix)
* [Action Items](#action-items)

## Metadata

|   |  |
| -- | -- |
| Software | https://github.com/cubefs/cubefs  |
| Website | https://cubefs.io/ |
| Security Provider | No  |
| Languages | Golang |

> | SBOM | Currently, no SBOM is publicly available for CubeFS|

Reviewer 4: Recommended minor change: highlight that target state is not yet achieved, while removing red-herring questions about a potential privately available SBOM.
 
```suggestion
| SBOM | CubeFS does not currently generate an SBOM on release |
```

Author: @eddie-knight, we have added the change you suggested. Please let us know if it's okay.

    * Key differences -
      * ObjectiveFS Is not an open-source platform and is a for-profit database which is the opposite of CubeFS
      * Both file systems have support for POSIX and utilize AWS S3 however CubeFS has support for more protocols as well. 

  * **JuiceFS**: Juice FS is a POSIX-compatible file system that is high-performance and under the Apache License. It is free and open source and has support for different access protocols. The metadata in the FS can be compatible with different database engines as well such as Redis, MySQL, and TiKV.
    
     * Key differences -
       * Juice FS has support for data compression through LZ4 or Zstandard to compress your data.
       * Juice FS has support for metadata engines such as Redis, MariaDB, TiKV, PostgreSQL etc.
       * CubeFS prides itself on its compatibility with different protocols such as its own REST API.
       * JuiceFS has an enterprise version as well as a community edition.
      

> # Action Items
> 
> This section enumerates a couple of action items the CubeFS team could consider implementing to improve CubeFS's security posture and overall enhancement. Each action item also has a suggested resolution which the team may find useful.
> 
> * **Docker Image Security** -
>     * **Existing Issue** - Docker Content Trust (DCT), which provides image signing and verification, is not explicitly enabled. Enabling this can ensure the integrity and authenticity of images. There is also no vulnerability scanning for container images. Vulnerability scanning tools can identify and report known vulnerabilities. Audit logging is not explicitly mentioned for the containers.
>     * **Suggested Resolution** - DCT can be enabled by adding an environment variable in the Docker Compose file. The docker configuration file should also be updated to include the change. Vulnerability scanning tools such as Trivy, Clair, etc. can be added to scan container images for security vulnerabilities. Logging can be enabled by using Docker’s built-in audit logging capabilities. The Docker Daemon needs to be updated with the appropriate options.
>  
> * **Formal SBOM** -
>     * **Existing Issue** - CubeFS is currently missing a document that formally outlines all of the project’s dependencies including licenses, versions, etc.
>     * **Suggested Resolution** - A formal SBOM document can be generated using the FOSSA CLI as specified in this [guide blog](https://fossa.com/blog/generate-software-bill-of-materials-fossa/).
>  
> * **SLSA Provenance File** -
>     * **Existing Issue** - Although CubeFS's current score of Signed-Release on their OpenSSF scorecard is passable through cryptographically signing release artifacts, it should have more detailed records of their artifacts' origins and production. 
>     * **Suggested Resolution** - To meet the highest standards of the OpenSSF Scorecard, and ensure maximum project integrity, a SLSA provenance file should be included in the assets for each release, which in turn will increase the Signed-Releases score. The details on this can be found on the SLSA [official site](https://slsa.dev/).
>  
> * **Use of Static Application Security Testing (SAST) tool** -
>     * **Existing Issue** - CubeFS’s current commit procedure does not include the use of a Static Application Security Testing (SAST) tool. Though some commits use SAST tools, not all of them do. This could result in unsafe code, and potential security threats being merged with the main branch.
>     * **Suggested Resolution** - By standardizing the use of SAST tools before every commit within the pipeline, regardless of the commit’s purpose, CubeFS can ensure that the integrity of their code is consistently up to date. Details of SAST can be found [here](https://github.com/ossf/scorecard/blob/4edb07802fdad892fa8d10f8fd47666b6ccc27c9/docs/checks.md#sast).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Following discussions from the review team, we are asking that Security Pals please remove any recommendations from the scope of this document. You may optionally communicate recommendations for projects in a more accessible location, such as in a project community channel or GitHub Issue.

Author: @eddie-knight, per your suggestion, we have removed the action items section from this document. We will figure out how to communicate our suggestions to the CubeFS team.

# CubeFS Self-assessment
The Self-assessment is the initial document for projects to begin thinking about the
security of the project, determining gaps in their security, and preparing any security
documentation for their users. This document is ideal for projects currently in the
CNCF **sandbox** as well as projects that are looking to receive a joint assessment and
currently in CNCF **incubation**.

For a detailed guide with step-by-step discussion and examples, check out the free 
Express Learning course provided by Linux Foundation Training & Certification: 
[Security Assessments for Open Source Projects](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/express-learning/security-self-assessments-for-open-source-projects-lfel1005/).

> # Self-assessment outline

Author: Template text has been removed and additional heading has been removed.

## Table of contents

* [Metadata](#metadata)
  * [Security links](#security-links)
* [Overview](#overview)
  * [Actors](#actors)
  * [Actions](#actions)
  * [Background](#background)
  * [Goals](#goals)
  * [Non-goals](#non-goals)
* [Self-assessment use](#self-assessment-use)
* [Security functions and features](#security-functions-and-features)
* [Project compliance](#project-compliance)
* [Secure development practices](#secure-development-practices)
* [Security issue resolution](#security-issue-resolution)
* [Appendix](#appendix)
* [Action Items](#action-items)

## Metadata

|   |  |
| -- | -- |
| Software | https://github.com/cubefs/cubefs  |
| Website | https://cubefs.io/ |
| Security Provider | No  |
| Languages | Golang |

> | SBOM | [CubeFS SBOM File](https://github.com/avinashnarasimhan18/tag-security/blob/4e6b73248f7807cef59a456ab87d8f357094f380/assessments/projects/cubefs/cubefs_sbom.json)|

Reviewer: This link seems to be from your personal fork of the repository.
Please update it with the link from the project.

Author: The SBOM Section has been updated.

* **Metadata Update** - 
  * Actors: Metadata Subsystem, Master Node
  * Security Checks: Sensitive metadata information should be encrypted during transmission and storage. There should be consistency checks to ensure metadata remains coherent and accurate. Authentication and authorization are a must for metadata updates to prevent unauthorized changes
  * Actor Interaction: The Metadata Subsystem will update and manage the metadata shards while coordinating with the Master Node for consistency and replication

* **User Authentication and Authorization** - 
  * Actors: Authentication Service, CubeFS Components (e.g., Master, Metadata, DataNodes)
  * Actor Interaction: Authentication Service validates user credentials via service requests and grants access permissions to CubeFS components based on defined policies

* **Volume Access Control** -
  * Actors: Volume Management System, Container/Client Applications
  * Actor Interaction: Volume Management System manages access permissions and interacts with container/client applications to grant or restrict access to volumes. Regular audits to ensure access permissions align with security policies. 

> 

Reviewer: What are the components involved and workflow in the Data read operations?

Author: The data read operation has been expounded upon.

> ### Goals

Reviewer: Goals section usually talks about what the project aims to accomplish (could incl. security goals but that isn't the main focus). A good example is https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/blob/main/assessments/projects/kyverno/self-assessment.md#goal

Author: The goals section has been updated as per the review comment.

* **Hardware Security Module (HSM) Integration** - 

  * **Goal**: Enhance the security of Authnode by integrating with Hardware Security Modules (HSMs).
  * **Security Guarantee**: Leveraging HSMs (e.g., SGX) to secure key management, reducing the risk of Auth Node compromise.

* **Enhanced Authentication Features** - 

  * **Goal**: Expand authentication features for improved security and usability.
  * **Security Guarantee**: Future improvements include support for credential revocation, key rotation, and HSM integration for a more secure authentication framework.

* **Performance-Enhancing Security Measures** - 

  * **Goal**: Ensure security measures do not compromise system performance.
  * **Security Guarantee**: Continuous refinement of security mechanisms (e.g., optimizing writeback cache, addressing performance limitations in encryption) without compromising overall system performance.

* **Key Management and Rotation**:

  * **Goal**: Safeguard shared keys and support regular key rotation for enhanced security.
  * **Security Guarantee**: Future enhancements to support key rotation, reducing the risk of key compromise and strengthening encryption mechanisms.

> ### Non-goals

Reviewer: Non-goals section usually talks about what actions are out of scope for the same. A good example is https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/blob/main/assessments/projects/kyverno/self-assessment.md#non-goals

Author: The non-goals section has been updated as per the review comment.

* **Elimination of All Operational Errors** - CubeFS does not aim to eradicate all potential errors or misconfigurations during operational usage.

* **Providing Protection Beyond Defined Use Cases** - CubeFS does not extend security protections to scenarios or use cases not explicitly defined or supported. CubeFS focuses on securing the defined use cases and may not cover security aspects outside these boundaries.

## Self-assessment use

This self-assessment is created to perform an internal analysis of the project's security.  It is not intended to provide a security audit of CubeFS, or function as an independent assessment or attestation of CubeFS's security health. This document serves to provide CubeFS users with an initial understanding of CubeFS's security, where to find existing security documentation, their plans for security, and a general overview of its security practices, both for the development as well as security of CubeFS. This document provides the CNCF TAG-Security with an initial understanding of the project and its security posture.

> ## Security functions and features

Reviewer: Considering the project is in cloud storage domain, pointers on data backup, recovery could be useful to include here.

    * Multiple replicas provide protection against attacks that aim to compromise data integrity. If one replica is targeted by a data manipulation attack, the other replicas can act as a reference to identify and rectify unauthorized changes, preserving the integrity of the data.

## Project compliance

CubeFS does not currently document meeting particular compliance standards such as PCI-DSS, COBIT, ISO, GDPR, etc.

## Secure development practices

* **Development Pipeline** - 

  * **Version control** - The CubeFS repository uses Git as its primary version control tool.

  * **Code contribution** - CubeFS has defined a document for users and other community members who want to contribute to the repository. The document contains development style guidelines and commit message guidelines. 

  * **Commit Signing** - All commits have to be signed following certain guidelines and go through a DCO (Developer Certificate of Origin) check. 

>   * **CI/CD pipeline** - CubeFS uses automated CI/CD pipelines to build and test code and uses the Travis CI service to run all checks including unit and integration tests. 

Reviewer: Are there any SAST tools for container image vulnerabilities, static code analysis or source composition analysis included in their CI pipeline? Please include here.

Author: Lack of SAST tools in CubeFS CI/CD pipeline has been addressed.
